A framework for Wordpress is a theme structure which can give extra functionality and different options
themes in a working WordPress website that inherit properties from a parent theme which is present in
Use this structure to allow their child themes to inherit more functionality and customisation options
than WordPress offers by default.
code within the child the files itself.
the child theme doesn't get updated.
Only the parent theme let's start by checking out what WordPress says about child themes.
It's recommended that use a child theme because if you modify a theme directly and it's updated then
This is probably the biggest reason and the most important one to use a child.
Instead of updating or changing the parent theme or just a theme by itself it can speed up development
on the site and it's a great way to learn about WordPress theme development.
In this course you've delved pretty deeply already into how WordPress theme files work and how it connects
When we experiment with child themes in this video theme frameworks take this concept a step further
by providing a fixed parent theme and then allowing developers and developing themselves child themes
Let's look into how the Genesis framework works a little bit because this is what we'll be using to
If you go ahead and log in I want to show you the back and dashboard of your students inside of course
dotcom.
And if I just look under appearance's themes you'll see that I have a whole lot of themes available
can see that I have the Genesis theme in here but not activated.
And the theme that's activated right now is called the alt. pro theme which is a child theme for Genesis.
Now if I go ahead and write click and open visit the site in a new tab you can see that I'm actually
own design and my own content for my purposes here at W.P. of course dot com taking a look back inside
If I hit customize I'll be able to show you some of the custom functionality that Genesis child themes
First of all there's front page background images that the theme puts in here and I can actually change
seven different widget areas that you can populate with whatever you like.
That's my text widget which is number two right here.
widget which shows two columns right here.
When I have one of the things that many Genesys child themes provide is a front page layout which lets
Now back in our locally hosted live site we used that new affinity theme here and we were able to customize
But if we wanted to we should install a copy of this called a child theme so that we can place any of
that this is just version 1.0 of the affinity theme.
If I were to go into the editor or use my text or code editor called Adam to edit the stylesheet style
that I want or even any code snippets that I could find on the Internet as soon as this theme updates
it will erase all of my changes.
Now that is unless I have a child theme installed in the next video we're going to install a child theme
that wouldn't be ruined when the theme updates you can easily create a child theme for any standalone
theme that you have whether it's a premium theme or a free theme.
make nondestructive edits that wouldn't be overwritten if the child theme gets an update instead of
In this video I presented an introduction to child themes in wordpress and also how frameworks use the
the next video you'll create your own child theme for the new thety theme by Automattic and make some
Then when the developers update the theme to the next version none of it changes and customisations